---
title: Souls and Arkay’s Shadow
date: 2013-01-17T13:26:52 -0500
reddit: 16riq2
---

There are two types of souls, black and white. Black are the ten playable races
and white are everyone else.

The reason for this in-lore is commonly accepted to be Arkay’s whim and
sentience.

Let’s take a look at this, shall we?

We know that in gameplay, the ten races get black souls and everyone else gets
white. But this being /r/TESLore, we don’t really care.

So, onto the lore. Four races of men (Bretons, Cyrodiils, Nords, Redguards) have
black. Four races of mer (Altmer, Bosmer, Dunmer, Orsimer). Two beasts
(Argonian, Khajiit). Dragons in *Skyrim* have their own thing. And literally
every other actor has white. Animals, Draugr, Dragon Priests (actually, do they
have white or black? I don’t remember. Fortunately, it’s irrelevant), goblins,
ogres, zombies.

Zombies and draugr used to be of the ten sentient races. They had black souls.
Now they don’t. Goblins and ogres are related closely to the Orcs. Orcs were
monsters, now they’re not. They get black souls now, goblins and ogres don’t.

Examining both in-game examples of goblin society or even just the relevant
[UESP page](http://www.uesp.net/wiki/Oblivion:Goblins), we find that goblins are
quite intelligent, possessed of a social construct, and quite possibly sentient.
Yet they have white souls.

Okay I have class in half an hour so I’m going to <del>wrap this up</del> really
get going. I may come back with an edit. Here’s my actual point.

____

Arkay doesn’t award black souls because of a level of sentience or intelligence.
He awards it because of a level of maturity and civilization.

As I [wrote earlier](http://redd.it/151r7k/), the Orcs changed their nature and
appearance during the Warp in the West. Not a physical makeover, but more of a
mental one. They changed from being seen as monsters to being seen as, well,
men. Of a sort. Different discussion.

Orcs didn’t magically become more intelligent. They didn’t suddenly gain
sentience they hadn’t had. They’ve always been sentient. They were Aldmer, then
changed, then the rest of Tamriel changed how they saw them. Yet their soul
status was changed. Why?

Because Arkay is a <del>judgmental prick</del> subjective judge of soul status.

And color. White is generally purity, black taint. Ever wonder why the superior
creatures get the ugly soul? I have.

Arkay is shadowing the black-souled creatures from something. I don’t know what.
You’re welcome to speculate. White souls are linked more closely to the original
spirits. Black souls are standing in his shadow. They grow there. Flourish. Like
mushrooms or an illness. Having a black soul is the sign of having “grown up.”
Having changed from being an “innocent,” (really an awful word choice there, but
try and follow what I actually meant, I guess) being, one which interacts simply
with the world and does not work beyond the creature’s purpose in the grand
scheme.

Men and Mer have black souls because they are independent. They follow their own
variable whims. They aren’t cogs in the clockwork mechanism of nature. They are
wrenches in all of the works. They are unpredictable, detrimental, manipulative,
consumers. They change the world. Rip part of it down and construct their own.
They change it to suit their whim.

They are the Lorkhan of this subgradient. Too dramatic? Okay. But you see my
point.

Every fantasy world has an anti-industrial motif to it. For Tolkien, it was the
Orcs and Goblins. TES avoids assigning them the same role quite magnificently.

Instead, that motif is in the color of our souls. The Ten Black-Soul Races are
alien and detrimental to the original state of Nirn, and their “taint” is proof
of that.

Oh right, I almost forgot. Draugr and zombies and such have white souls because
they have degenerated closer to the animals they once were. They neither create
nor destroy. They simply are. They follow their purpose, predictably to a
degree, and exist in relative stasis. Goblins and ogres have white souls because
they have not matured as much as their cousins the Orcs or the other black-soul
races have. They are in the middle area between animal and man, despite their
near-equivalent intellegence and complexity.

The Orcs were awarded black souls when they were relegated from status as
Monster to Civilization. They stepped into Arkay’s Shadow willfully and their
soul was changed by it.

____

Wow so I wrote more in the ten minutes I had for the middle big section than I
did for the intro. I really spit it out in a time crunch. Class in fifteen, now.
I guess the first part had a lot of research to it.

Discuss.
