---
title: The Words of Oztrakos
date: 2014-11-26T14:18:19 -0500
reddit: 2ni654
---

# WANDERING ON THE PLAINS

## [The First Words of Oztrakos][words-1]

On the First Dawn, the Sun rose over an empty plain of barren stone. No wind
raced across this plain, for there was no wind. No water trickled down this
plain, for there was no water. No grass grew from its skin, nor did game graze
its trails, for there were neither grass nor game.

The Sun shone on a Mountain standing alone in the plain, towering over the
desolate emptiness. Where the Sun shone on the Mountain, there was light and
heat, and where the Mountain blocked the Sun, there was dark and cold. And on
each side, at the border where light met dark and heat met cold, there was life.

As the Sun moved, the light and the dark moved with it and with them moved the
life. The life that did not move, froze. The life that did not move, burned. In
the twin arcs of Twilight, there grew clans of the First Walkers, who followed
the life-giving shadows around the Mountain. Soon it came to be that each clan
which had believed itself to be alone in the Twilight, came across the old camps
of the other, and knew that they were not alone. And one camp rejoiced that they
were not alone in the barren plain, yet the other camp wept that they were
forever separated from their kin. The camp that rejoiced left messages of hope
for the camp that wept, the camp that wept left messages of sorrow.

The Sun turned, and with it turned the twilights in which the clans dwelt. The
clans grew, and continued to leave messages for the other, and in time agreed to
send scouts along the twilight, some headed for the Mountain, and some out into
the emptiness, where they hoped the twilights would join at the shadow of the
peak of the Mountain.

The scouts reached the Mountain, and discovered that its many crevices and caves
had allowed for life to flourish there, and there were many plants and animals
to eat and rocks to use. Neither group of scouts was able to meet the other, for
the Mountain's face was still exposed to the burning light and the freezing dark
and no cave was found that reached to the other side. Some were sent back from
the Mountain to their clans, each believing the Mountain uninhabited, yet most
stayed and began to settle it. Each of their leaders saw the Mountain’s riches
and knew that here, WE CAN BE.

The scouts reached the ever-turning apex of the shadow, and saw the fullness of
the Mountain and the twin lines of sustaining twilight rimming the shadow. The
clans met at the shadow-peak, and looked back to see the twin daggers of the
Mountain and its Shadow, and the endless emptiness of the burning plain, with
only the thin lines of liveable twilight lying between. The leaders of these saw
the harsh barrenness of the empty rock and knew that there, WE CANNOT BE.

# DIGGING TO THE CAVE

## [The Second Words of Oztrakos][words-2]

The clans moved into the Mountain, digging beneath its skin and carving out
homes and warrens in the rock.

Some of them were afraid of the dark, and lept out of the Mountain so quickly
that they tore new holes in it which let in the light, but were not enough that
the inside burned like the plain outside. They could never find the ways in
again and the holes they tore were too small to fit through the other way, so
now they wander the bright face of the Mountain with skins dark and burned
against its heat.

Some more were afraid of the work and of wasting away, so they held back, but
the diggers were furious and closed off tunnels behind them, so the lazy ones
could not follow. The shirkers became furious at this, and set up their own
camps in the empty halls near the skin of the Mountain, where they fought each
other as often as they fought the rubble barring the tunnels going further in.

Finally, the diggers came across a great cavern, with springs of water and
mushrooms and shells and glowing crystals and rich metal veins, and they agreed
that they had found their new home. And the two clans met in numbers for the
first time, and held a great feast to celebrate their union and their new-found
home in the cavern. But while they were feasting, there was a great Earthquake,
and all the large tunnels suddenly collapsed, leaving only scattered holes
letting in light from the outside.

One clan was angry, for they felt trapped and betrayed by the digging, and had
wanted to be able to go back to the surface and the plain of night and day and
twilight where they were free to roam, and blamed the earthquake on the other
clan, who had suggested living in the Mountain. The other clan barely took
notice, for they had never wanted to go back to wandering in circles balanced
between two opposite destructions. And the chief of the trapped ones argued with
the chief of the settled ones, and they both became so furious with the other
for being stubborn stupid that they started fighting, and then their clans went
to war as well.

# THE FIRST OF WARS

## [The Third Words of Oztrakos][words-3]

The war went on for a long time, and the Sun turned many times and the light it
cast through the holes riddling the mountain spun and danced to follow, and
eventually both clans were exhausted from the fighting and finally met again in
the center of the cave. But the trapped Chief who was named Orikal and his Fist
who was named Trinimak were more angry than tired, and when the settled Chief
who was named Lorkh met them, Trinimak beat Lorkh and stunned him, and Orikal
ripped out his heart and ate it and kicked the leavings across the cave.

The Settled were heartbroken by this and broke and scattered to the various
edges of the cavern, and the Trapped were drawn together by this victory and
moved off as a single clan.

Eventually, some of the Trapped thought they could figure out a way to escape by
digging even further down, which the rest of the Trapped thought was foolish
because everyone knew the way out was up, so those who wanted to go even Deeper
packed up and left.

After that, one of the Shirkers still wandering higher up found a crack in the
Mountain he could use to hear some of the Trapped folk down below, and started
talking into it. A Trapped man heard the Shirker and listened to her, and the
Shirker told him how he could be a king in the cavern and come to dominate the
cave. The man called himself a Prophet and drew crowds who believed in his
delusions of royalty, and when his followers were many, they cast down their
defiance of the Clan and left, following the New Diggers far away.

Trinimak gathered his Army, our fathers, and under orders of Orikal, chased down
the fracturing band of Velothiidh. Trinimak demanded that Veloth and his ilk
come home, but the Shirker holding Veloth’s ear squirmed through the crack in
the Mountain and infested him, and the Plotter-armored-in-Veloth stood up and
fought with Trinimak.

The Demon had all its strength, as it had not wasted any of itself digging
through the Mountain nor fighting in a long war, whereas Trinimak was tired and
his feet caught in mud, and the Demon was able to throw him to the ground and
fling itself on him. There it cracked open its jaws began to swallow Trinimak.
Trinimak freed one arm and began crawling back out of its hellish mouth, but it
bit down and swallowed him, and his arm fell to the rock.

The Demon laughed and laughed at this, and kicked Trinimak’s arm away, and then
began to talk and lie. It had eaten Trinimak’s voice as well, and vomited that
up enough to speak with it. Trinimak’s army despaired, and Veloth’s followers
celebrated, to hear Trinimak’s voice deride the cave and family and preach how
separation would let them do better. The Demon soon realized it was still
squeezing through that crack in the cave wall and having trouble staying in the
cave, so it left Veloth and pulled back to its own realm. It couldn’t fit
through the crack with Trinimak still in it, so it digested Trinimak right quick
and gave birth to Malak on the far side.

When the Shirker had retreated and its followers moved on, Malak crept up to the
gap in the rock and heard his army still despairing over him. Malak wanted to
comfort them as he had previously in the cave, but that was when he was Trinimak
and Trinimak was dead. Malak knew there was no comfort to be had, and he knew
they had to be strong, so he roared through and his people heard his voice and
stood up. And when they did, they found that they too had changed. They were no
longer soft and pretty and graceful and fair; they were hardy and strong and
rugged. And they knew there was no going back.

[words-1]: https://redd.it/2ni654
[words-2]: https://redd.it/2nlb35
[words-3]: https://redd.it/2nptag
